Spring Boot Quickstart (#48396)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/getting-started/quickstarts/spring-boot.mdx

---
title: 'Use Supabase with Spring Boot'
subtitle: 'Learn how to create a Spring Boot project and connect it to your Supabase project.'
breadcrumb: 'Framework Quickstarts'
---

<AiPrompt id="spring-boot" />

## 1. Create a Spring Boot project

> Make sure you have Java 17 or later installed (`java -version`), then use [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io) to scaffold a new project with the Web, Spring Data JPA, and Postgres Driver dependencies.

Reviewer: I would move this to a requirements box before steps. And in here just mention to run the command and _where_.

```bash
curl https://start.spring.io/starter.zip \
  -d dependencies=web,data-jpa,postgresql \
  -d type=maven-project \
  -d language=java \
  -d groupId=com.example \
  -d artifactId=instruments \
  -d name=instruments \
  -o instruments.zip
unzip instruments.zip -d instruments && cd instruments
```

> ## 2. Install Agent Skills (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2. Install Supabase's Agent Skills (optional)
```

If you don't include Supabase, then better not to capitalize it as it's a generic term or thing.

> Supabase's [Agent Skills](/docs/guides/ai-tools/ai-skills) is a curated set of instructions that give your AI agent procedural knowledge about working with Supabase.

Reviewer: Would be good to add a purpose, not the what but the why. What's the user's benefit on adding the skills.

To install, run the following command in the root of your project:

```bash
npx skills add supabase/agent-skills
```

## 3. Set up the Postgres connection details

Go to [database.new](https://database.new) and create a new Supabase project. Save your database password securely.

> When your project is up and running, navigate to your project dashboard and click on [Connect](/dashboard/project/_?showConnect=true&method=session). Under the **Session pooler** (port `5432`), select the **JDBC** tab and copy the connection string. Replace the password placeholder with your saved database password. You can reset your database password in your [Database Settings](/dashboard/project/_/database/settings) if you do not have it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your project is up and running, navigate to its dashboard and click on [Connect](/dashboard/project/_?showConnect=true&method=session).

Under the **Session pooler** (port `5432`), select the **JDBC** tab and copy the connection string. Replace the password placeholder with your saved database password.

<Admonition type="note">
You can reset your database password in your [Database Settings](/dashboard/project/_/database/settings) if you do not have it.
</Admonition>
```

> <Admonition type="note">

Reviewer: This instead of a note might be a _caution_ as well.

</Admonition>

The connection string contains your database password, and `application.properties` is committed with your project. Set the string as an environment variable instead, and set it the same way on whatever platform you deploy to.

```bash
export SUPABASE_DB_URL='jdbc:postgresql://xxxx.pooler.supabase.com:5432/postgres?user=postgres.xxxx&password=[YOUR-PASSWORD]'
```

Then reference the variable, along with the driver, in `src/main/resources/application.properties`.

```text name=src/main/resources/application.properties
spring.datasource.url=${SUPABASE_DB_URL}
spring.datasource.driver-class-name=org.postgresql.Driver
spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto=update
```

If the app fails to start with `Unable to determine Dialect without JDBC metadata`, Hibernate couldn't open a connection at all. Look above that line in the logs for the real cause, most commonly `password authentication failed`.

## 4. Change the default schema

> By default Hibernate creates tables in the `public` schema. We recommend changing this because Supabase exposes the `public` schema as a [data API](/docs/guides/api).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default Hibernate creates tables in the `public` schema. We recommend changing this as Supabase exposes the `public` schema as a [data API](/docs/guides/api).
```

> The schema has to exist on Supabase before your app starts, so create it from the [Table Editor](/dashboard/project/_/editor) first. Then point Hibernate at it in `application.properties`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the schema from the [Table Editor](/dashboard/project/_/editor) as your app will need it before start. Then point **Hibernate** at it in `application.properties`.
```
